>>JAY DYER: Is there a
hidden, more esoteric,
deeper meaning to
the Hollywood films
that we all love to watch?
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>JAY WEIDNER: And
I'm Jay Weidner.
And this is "Hollywood Decoded."
[THEME MUSIC]
>>DYER: In Ridley
Scott's "Blade Runner,"
we have the warning of a
completely synthetic future,
something that's completely
overwritten normal reality.
LA traffic is still
bad 20 years from now.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
>>DYER: Giant ziggurats
towering over the entire city
with one corporation that runs
it all, the Tyrell Corporation.
And what are they obsessed with?
Artificial intelligence
and human engineering.
>>WEIDNER: So this film is
really an amazing exploration
of what happens when an
artificial creature, Deckard,
begins to realize that he is--
begins to become
self-aware, self-conscious.
And I think that
is actually what
the film is about, is Deckard's
coming from the matrix of being
artificial
intelligence and Batty
initiating him and leading
him in to individuality,
which he achieves by
the end of the film.
>>DYER: I like that you
mentioned initiation,
because I see the opening
sequence with that ziggurat--
and then we flash
to Deckard's eye.
So basically, we're having
a giant pyramid with an eye,
right?
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
>>DYER: And so we know
that, from the outset,
this is, in some way, Masonic
or an initiatory-type experience
that we the viewer, as well
as Deckard the replicant,
is going to undergo
throughout the film.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And the whole film--
the replicants have
a disgust for humans.
>>DYER: Right.
>>WEIDNER: And they
really have come
to realize that we're
actually not useful at all.
And they are superhuman.
The one replicant sticks his
hands in the frozen liquid
and is unhurt by it.
But they've been given a
time limit to their lives,
which they consider to
be extremely unfair.
And I don't think
Deckard has a time limit.
It doesn't appear.
And somehow, the
blade runners are
replicants that are not given
a time limit to their death.
>>DYER: I like that you
mentioned time limits
and death, because
really, the modus operandi
of the corporate
scientistic establishment
is to overcome death.
That's the whole goal
of trans-humanism.
And the way that that's
perceived to be done
is through merging with
AI and with computers.
Right?
And so what's neat
about this presentation
is that it flips
the script a bit.
And it says, what if the
replicants themselves
realized that they need to
rebel against their creators?
Us.
Right?
So I read it on multiple levels.
I see it as kind of
a Masonic allegory.
But I also see it as, in a
way, describing the real world.
I mean, in the
real world, we deal
with these oligarchs,
these corporate elite
that we talked about before,
who see us as basically
their scientific test tubes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So what we're looking
at in the opening scene
is basically the hell of a
totally corporate-controlled LA
future.
Total dystopia, worst version.
And you'll notice
how globalist it
is, because you see these
giant, sensory overload
display screens everywhere.
It's almost like
Times Square on acid,
with everywhere it's
Japanese, it's Chinese.
So it's all these cultures
blended, smashed together,
all run by this giant
pyramid corporation.
>>WEIDNER: The place to be
in this dystopian future
is off world.
>>DYER: Exactly.
And they present the
off world like it's
a kind of heaven
that you can win,
something like the island
from Michael Bay or something.
Right?
But what's funny too
is that this is 1982,
and the film includes
nanotechnology.
You have the sequence where
we're going to see nanotech.
And this is another
level of the presaging
or the predictive programming
that's telling us what--
I don't think anybody in 1982
knew about nanotechnology.
>>WEIDNER: I don't think so.
>>DYER: In the public.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, in the public
eye, I don't think they did.
Again, more secrets
being released,
amazing vision of the
future in "Blade Runner."
And of course, we know the
sequel will be coming out.
And I can't wait to see that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DYER: So here we have classic
Masonic imagery, as well as
Bohemian Grove imagery,
this owl, right?
But it's a synthetic owl.
But the owl is the
principle of wisdom.
It's Minerva, Order of Minerva,
according to the Illuminati,
historically speaking.
>> It must be expensive.
>> Very.
>>DYER: My thesis on
this is that the highest
level of scientism,
or scientific progress
has achieved anything
that it conceived of.
And so that's really what
the history of, in my view,
the secret societies are about
was not so much the mastering
of occult arts per se, but
what those occult arts could
do in the real world in terms
of technology and science.
So in this presentation,
what I think you have is
Deckard here is going to
be amazed at the ability
that Tyrell has to
mimic the real world.
>> Is this to be
an empathy test?
Capillary dilation of
so-called blush response,
fluctuation of the pupil,
involuntary dilation
of the iris.
>>DYER: And so
it's almost like--
if you've read the
philosopher Jean Baudrillard,
he talks about the
synthetic overlay
that would come in the future,
where almost everything would
be synthetic.
And it would be
impossible to tell
what was fake, what was real.
And he was writing this
before "The Matrix" came out.
It's even referenced in
the film, "The Matrix."
Right?
So it's almost like,
here's the reality
of total virtual
reality made real.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, I
totally agree with that.
I find it very interesting
that when Tyrell first
enters the movie, he begins
talking about eye responses
and pulse rates
increasing and things,
almost implying that he knows
Deckard also is an android
and that he can be tested too.
And he wasn't just talking
about Sean Young's character,
but both of them, I think.
>>DYER: Well, these
psychological profiles,
what they call the
Voight-Kampff Test, to me,
it reminds me of a
lot of the literature
that you would read about
the MK Ultra program.
And so you have
all of this testing
that was done on many levels.
It involved drugs.
It involved a psychiatrist,
sociologist, Dr. Ewen Cameron
and Jose Delgado.
And they were all concerned
with mind control.
So what's funny is
that you think at first
that this is about creating
programmed assassins.
That's what these Nexus 6 are.
But what happens is that
they break their programming.
And like you said,
they actually want
to move on and take-- they
want to inherit the future.
They want to become the
future and not humanity.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and
Batty shows that there
are parts of the human
experience that he
does admire through the Blake
poem and things like that.
But he knows in the
end, the future is his,
whether he's here or not.
So I think that's what's
really going on here.
And I think that the whole
sequence with the owl
is very interesting, because not
only does it represented Molach
and all of that, but in
the intelligence circles,
they have two words for
different types of agents.
One is an owl, and
one is a rooster.
A rooster is someone who
wants to wake someone up.
And owl is someone who
wants to keep people asleep.
And I think that what
you see in this movie
is a war between the
owls and the roosters.
Batty is the rooster,
and Tyrell is the owl.
And he even has an owl in
his office to make sure
that everybody knows it.
>>DYER: Good point, yeah.
And don't forget that Gaff
leaves the origami rooster,
like you said, as part
of the trail that Deckard
is supposed to pick up.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
>>DYER: Next, we're
going to look at "fiery
the angels fell."
>> Fiery the angels fell.
Deep thunder rolled
around their shores,
burning with the fires of Orc.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
You not come here.
Illegal!
>>DYER: This is interesting,
because this poem is
about the American Revolution.
It's about overthrowing
King George.
And if you look back to Francis
Bacon, the mythology of America
is as the new Atlantis.
So it's almost like
Blake is saying,
this continent will give rise
to, or be the next Atlantis.
It's going to be revolutionary.
It's going to
overthrow the king.
Right?
And so Roy Batty, I think, is
consciously referencing that,
saying that he
and his replicants
are like the newest, latest
band of revolutionaries.
And if you read the introduction
to "Brave New World," Aldous
Huxley says that all of
the revolutions, which
were scientific
revolutions, he says,
this is the final one
in "Brave New World."
And it is the revolution
to transcend humanity.
>>WEIDNER: I do think you're
right about Blake and Francis
Bacon and the origins of
America and that Batty obviously
thinks he's one of
these revolutionaries.
>>DYER: Exactly, right.
Yeah, that poem is consciously
full of Masonic imagery
or esoteric or
hermetic symbolism,
as many of Blake's works are.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
>>DYER: And so
that's purposely why
it's included in the script.
Right?
And so what's, again, depicted
as a very dark future, a very
dystopian future,
is again a warning.
Just like in "Alien" you have
the warning of Weyland-Yutani
Corporation, here, you have the
warning of Tyrell Corporation.
And it's a question of, will
we find our humanity again?
>>WEIDNER: Right.
And I think the answer is
that the way that we're
going to find our humanity,
according to "Blade Runner"
is through those future
machines, who are going
to turn into a semi-human.
I think that's what's going on
with Batty and with Deckard.
They're actually becoming more
human, more self-realized,
more understanding of
themselves as an individual.
I think that's what
the initiatic process
in spiritual traditions is.
I think when you grow up in
a tribal kind of situation,
you begin thinking
in an odd way.
There's this psychiatrist,
Julian Jaynes,
who wrote a whole book about the
bicameral mind and "The Iliad"
and "The Odyssey" and how in
"The Iliad," all of the people
that are in there--
Ulysses and all the other
characters fighting the war--
they are being directed
by other worldly voices
throughout the entire thing.
Gods are telling
them what to do.
And they're doing
what the gods say.
But in "The Odyssey,"
Ulysses, or Odysseus,
is beginning to
think for himself.
He's beginning to make
the decisions himself.
So "The Iliad" and "The Odyssey"
is really the literary idea
of this moving from
a group consciousness
to an individual consciousness.
And I think that's
what's going on
in "Blade Runner,"
Batty first, and then
through the initiation--
>>DYER: Awakening Deckard.
>>WEIDNER: --now Deckard.
>>DYER: So if we
think about Eye World,
this is neat because
this, as we said,
is a Philip K. Dick story.
And Eye World comes up
again, or the notion
of having to replace
your eyes comes up again
in "Minority Report,"
because in the future,
the idea is, where there's
going to be retinal scanning
everywhere, you're
not going to be
able to hide from the system.
So what Eye World
is is this place
where you can go, presumably,
and have a new eye put in
to thereby bypass
the retinal scanning.
And Roy Batty's there
because the Asian guy
who runs it is one of the
engineers of the replicants.
And so he thinks this guy's
going to be able to tell him
how can he get back to Tyrell,
how can he take them down,
basically.
>>WEIDNER: Right.
And it's interesting that
he's the scientist that makes
the eyes for the replicates.
And of course, the famous
line of Roy Batty--
"If you could see what
I've seen with your eyes."
And a great scene.
And again, the eyes are
the window into the soul
and into the pineal gland.
So they're a very important
organ of the human.
And it's really the
way towards light
and how light comes in
and out of our system.
>>DYER: Well, you
mentioned technocrat.
And the reason that this
film consistently shows eyes
over and over and over
is that it's not just
the all-seeing eye symbolism
per se, but the meaning
of the all-seeing eye
is total awareness.
Or what the technocratic
establishment
would like to have is
total panopticism, which
is the idea that
everything is surveilled,
everything is
watched, everything
is known, total gnosis, which
will give you the upper hand.
Right?
So Tyrell is, in
many ways, not just
creating AI
presumably because he
lives atop this giant pyramid.
He's also involved
in panopticism.
Next we're going to look at the
notion of implanted memories.
>> You remember the spider
that lived in a bush outside
your window?
Orange body, green legs.
You watched her build
a web all summer.
And one day, there's
a big egg in it.
The egg hatched.
>> The egg hatched.
>> Yeah.
>> And 100 baby
spiders came out.
And they ate her.
>>DYER: So here we have
Deckard explaining that she
has implanted memories.
And this has been the
key throughout the film
to let us know who
the replicants are.
The back story that you have,
the memories of who you are,
were created by Tyrell.
Right?
And they're just copies.
And all the replicants
have the same backstory.
>> OK.
Bad joke.
I made a bad joke.
You're not a replicant.
Go home.
OK?
No, really.
I'm sorry.
Go home.
>>DYER: And what
we're going to see
is that Deckard realizes that
he has the same memories too.
Now, what I find
fascinating about
this is that if you look to the
real history of the MK Ultra
program, they were actually
studying human psychology so
that it could transition, as
we said, into Fort Detrick
and into DARPA.
It actually turns into
DARPA, believe or not.
That's the origins of
the MK Ultra program.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, Ewen Cameron
was an MK Ultra scientist
out of Montreal.
And he would use what he
called psychic driving, which
he would repeat the same thing
over and over and over, which
was burying an
implant into you so
that you would begin believing
what you were hearing.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>WEIDNER: Extremely
frightening process.
>>DYER: That's why I see this
operating on multiple levels
because you can look at
studies that DARPA does now
that are public,
where they talk about
that they do have the
ability to implant
false memories in people.
So what I see is, again,
Philip K. Dick, who hung out
in the Silicon
Valley circles, he
knew about what
was really going on
in the military-industrial
complex.
And the Silicon Valley
circles are actually
connected to MK Ultra as well.
It's not two different things.
So we're getting a revelation
not of just Masonic allegory
and mythology and
initiation, but also
kind of what the
deep state was up to.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, it was
incredibly interesting
when you think about it.
Here we have Ridley
Scott in 1982
making a movie about all these
themes of high technology,
possibly clones, and doing it
in a very humanitarian way.
I think that's why I like
this film so much is that you
actually begin to feel
for the replicants
by the end of the film.
And they've become almost the
victims of the corporate state.
>>DYER: Yeah.
>>WEIDNER: Many people
considered "Blade Runner"
to be best lit film, a
shot film, you might say,
of all time.
And there's a reason
for that in that
right before he had
lined up all the cast,
Ridley had, and he lined
up the crew and everything.
And then right at the last
minute came the strike.
I think it was in 1981.
And so he had three months with
his crew who he was paying.
But they weren't doing anything.
And so Scott said, I'm not going
to pay you not to do anything.
So he called the
entire crew together.
He said, I want to make the
best lit movie of all time.
We've got three months
to design the lighting.
Let's do it.
And I think then he brought
in Vangelis, the composer, who
created that film noir,
electronic future soundtrack.
I think that, combined with
Sean Young's strange haircut
created this kind of
reinvigorating film
noir through science fiction.
>>DYER: Another staple of
noir is the Venetian blinds.
And you see that with
the smoke, the smoky air,
and the very dim lighting coming
through the Venetian blinds.
You see that in "Chinatown"
at the very beginning,
another neo-noir film.
Next we're going to look
at the nanotech serpent.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Fish?
[MAN SHOUTING IN BACKGROUND]
>> I think it was
manufactured locally.
[? Time ?] is quality,
superior workmanship.
There is the maker serial
number 9906947XB71.
Interesting.
Not fish, neck scale.
>> It's a snake.
>> Try Abdul Ben-Hassan.
He made this snake.
>>DYER: So Deckard is looking
for his first replicant.
And he finds out that
she is a stripper.
And she has a giant
boa constrictor
that she strips with.
So here we have some
Eden imagery here
with the nude woman
and the serpent.
And what he finds
is that this is not
a real serpent, which is a
clue that this is a replicant.
So he takes this scale from the
boa constrictor to be analyzed.
And it has this little
nanotech serial number on it.
>>WEIDNER: Watermark.
>>DYER: Exactly.
Right?
So I see this as, again,
amazing predictive programming.
Impressions here with
Philip K. Dick or Ridley
Scott, whoever put
this aspect into it,
of looking at the possibility
of nanotechnology.
And from what I've
looked at, the earliest
that I could find of
references to nanotechnology
would be 1986.
I think supposedly IBM
was able to arrange atoms,
they claim, into a certain
letter configuration.
So this is 1982,
projecting the possibility
of dealing with things
at such a micro-level.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah,
it's interesting
because in the early '80s,
around the same time period,
Jim Keith put out his first
book "Secrets and Suppressed."
And at the very
beginning of the book,
he has a picture of
a nanochip, which
was found at Oxford University
during an experiment
on someone.
And literally, the
picture has the chip.
And underneath it, it says,
do you know what this is?
Please call.
Because they didn't
know what it was.
Now, that would be about '79--
>>DYER: Oh, wow.
>>WEIDNER: --that
this chip was found.
And that's the earliest
I've ever seen.
So again, what does Ridley
Scott and Philip K. Dick know?
Philip K. Dick was still around.
He died during the
filming of "Blade Runner,"
but he was around.
And what did he
really know about what
was going on in Silicon Valley?
>>DYER: So what they're
doing in Eye World is
they're-- we're focusing
back on the eye.
And throughout the
"Blade Runner" series,
the focus is on the eye because
that's the most obvious way
to identify someone.
That is the trait by which
you could, in this dystopian
future, identify and name
who or what something is.
>>WEIDNER: Right.
>>DYER: And so we find
out at the beginning
that when they're doing
the Voight-Kampff Test,
they're looking at
the way the eye reacts
to the questions that
are asked in that test.
And so this is going to tell
who is and who is not a human.
And it also, as we said,
has that initiatory occult
significance when
it comes to the fact
that the real eye in
this movie is Tyrell.
But Tyrell is going
to be taken down.
And he's going to be
replaced with the future,
the future of humanity,
which is trans-humanity.
>>WEIDNER: I also
point out that Tyrell
has extremely thick glasses,
which causes his eyes to become
even bigger when he's on camera,
which is deliciously hilarious.
>>DYER: Well, it's
irony because he's
creating these beings
that have the ability
to presumably see perfectly.
Right?
And he himself cannot see.
And so because Roy Batty
is this Luciferian rebel
against his creator, the
gnostic mythology of rebelling
against the demiurge.
The demiurge is
always characterized
as this sort of dumb, arrogant,
stupid thing or entity,
because he created these beings,
and they're all messed up.
Right?
So the fact that the
creator himself can't see
is a great irony.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah,
and then of course,
all of the alchemical
golem-ness The golem comes back
to basically rip the creator up.
And that's exactly what
happens in the movie.
Batty comes back to kill Tyrell.
In fact, that's his whole
purpose is to kill Tyrell.
And again, doesn't he
get him through the eyes?
He takes his eyes.
>>DYER: Yeah, he
takes his thumbs
and smashes them into his eyes.
>>WEIDNER: So again,
the eye imagery,
the Masonic eye
imagery, it's all
intertwined here in a
brilliant fashion by Scott.
I mean, let's face it.
This is just brilliant.
>>DYER: Well, the eye is
what takes in the knowledge
of the external world.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
>>DYER: And so it's
the source of how we
learn things and know things.
So it has multiple
significances, as we said.
It has that intelligence,
technocrat significance.
But it also has that
gnostic significance
of basically absorbing
everything that's
out there in the external world,
and in a platonic fashion,
mirroring it in our minds.
And so this is how
computers work.
So replicants have eyes because
they are, as you said, golems.
And if you look to that medieval
Jewish qabalistic mythology,
the idea of creating
the golem is initially,
as you said, to have a servant.
But that servant can actually
turn on you and destroy you.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
>>DYER: Next,
we're going to look
at the Nexus 6
revelation of Roy Batty
and the double-headed eagle.
>> No.
Knight takes queen.
See?
It won't do.
Why are you staring
at this, Sebastian?
>> Because you're so different.
You're so perfect.
>> Yes.
>> What generation are you?
>> Nexus 6.
>> Ah, I knew it.
>>DYER: So if you
notice, Roy Batty
is playing on a
chess board here.
And you have the
black and white,
which is the floor
of the Masonic lodge.
Right?
And what this suggests
is, if you notice,
there's behind him a
double-headed eagle.
The double-headed
eagle is the symbol
of the 32nd Degree
of the Scottish Rite.
And it's all about duality,
black, white, good, evil.
And Roy Batty is really this
Nietzschian, Ubermensch figure.
He's going to transcend
these classical notions
of good and evil,
of black and white.
He's beyond that.
And he's, as we said, the cause
of the awakening of Deckard.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and the
Nexus 6 are of the top level
of these replicants.
And the 33rd degree
level of Freemasonry
is the next one up
above the Double Eagle.
3 and 3 equals 6, saying that
Batty is better than you are.
>>DYER: Yes.
>>WEIDNER: He's actually
the top of the line.
And even this guy
is below the line.
And again, Batty
is the-- yeah, he's
the return of the sophian
knowledge of gnosticism
and the awakening of,
instead of the human species,
the replicants.
>>DYER: The dark hero.
This is why he's going to rebel
against Tyrell, because as you
said, that the death
programming has
been put into the replicants.
He wants to live.
That's what he says
is, I want life.
And you won't give it to me.
So where they are here is
at the toymaker's abode.
And the toymaker is, in a way,
one of these lesser engineers
under Tyrell.
You know, you had the Asian guy
who was dealing with the eyes.
And presumably, this
guy makes the bodies,
and this is what
he does in his loft
there by himself is design
all these little creatures
and characters.
And so again, Roy
is on this quest
to find his way back to Tyrell.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
And again, the whole
quest of the golem to get
back to the alchemist.
>>DYER: Yes.
And here we have Roy
Batty versus his creator.
>> It's not an easy
thing to meet your maker.
And what can he do for you?
>> Can the maker
repair what he makes?
>> Would you like
to be modified?
Stay here.
>>DYER: Here we have what
we've been talking about,
this finding your way
back to the creator.
Same plot as
"Prometheus," right?
Going back and taking
down whoever put into us
this damn death programming.
>> What seems to be the problem?
>> Death.
Well, I'm afraid that's a
little out of my jurisdiction.
You--
>> I want more life, father.
>>WEIDNER: What I like
about the whole scene
is not only is the
lighting amazing,
but you can see the
fear in Tyrell's face.
He knows that this
thing is not going
to stop until it gets him.
What's interesting is that
Tyrell doesn't give up
the ghost and reprogram him.
Maybe he's at the auspices of
someone even more higher up
in this Freemasonry channel
than even him and he
can't break that rule.
I don't know.
>>DYER: Yeah, and you'll
notice on his bathrobe there,
as he walks around like
a kind of Hugh Hefner,
he's got an owl logo.
And so the Tyrell logo itself
is the owl, which is all
about that control,
that all-seeing eye,
total technocratic dominance
that you mentioned.
I think to summarize
what "Blade Runner" is
about is a warning, again,
of synthetic future.
So we've had the
warning in "Alien,"
in "Aliens," and
that franchise, that
dealt with tampering with the
biosphere, geoengineering,
biological engineering,
cloning, and the hell
that could unleash.
And I think here, we have a
warning about a giant globalist
melting pot dominated
by a giant corporation,
a corporate government,
and then from there,
everybody else being
fed synthetic reality,
very similar to what
we see in "The Matrix."
Right?
That's what I think the
warning of this film is.
>>WEIDNER: There's a lot of
similarities between this film
and "The Matrix."
I think you're right.
I think the title of the
film, "Blade Runner,"
is about how dangerous
this whole scene is,
that it's like running
on the edge of a blade.
You're going to slip
for sure and fall.
And I think that
that's what's also
going on here is that Ridley
Scott is giving us a warning.
But oddly enough, it's kind
of an optimistic movie too
in that the AI is
actually going to try
to find its way back to humanity
in this kind of ironic display
of opposites.
>>DYER: Join us again next
time on "Hollywood Decoded."
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>WEIDNER: And I'm Jay Weidner.
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: Where
did we come from?
How have we come to be
as we are in this world?
>>GRAHAM HANCOCK: If we have
false ideas about who and what
we are and how we got
here, then that state
is just going to
continue into the future.
We need to understand the
forces that were involved
in shaping the modern world.
>>DAVID WILCOCK: We have become
blinded to the afterlife.
We've become blinded to
higher consciousness.
Something is going on that takes
the apparent mundane reality
of life on its
surface veneer level.
And you look past
that veneer, and you
see that there is an
organized plan in place.
>>LINDA MOULTON HOWE:
95% is still under dirt.
And what could this
have been built for?
>>GRAHAM HANCOCK:
The greatest trick
the devil ever played
was to convince
the world that he is God.
In other words, from the
gnostic point of view,
isn't God at all.
>>GREGG BRADEN: Is
that just mythology?
Or are there any physical links?
>>ANDREW COLLINS:
This class is going
to be huge, massive, something
that is totally different,
something that we've
not encountered before.
>>GRAHAM HANCOCK:
The mission was
to lead us to the
revelation that
would help us to understand
the true nature of things,
not the illusory nature
that's being created
to hoodwink all of us, but the
real true nature of things.
[MUSIC PLAYING]